# atlas-gamedev-shmup
## Battle Team
Created by Peter Rosenthal  
For ATLS 4140 Game Development  
[Here is the game](https://cyuun.github.io/atlas-gamedev-shmup/finalGame-webBuild/)
### How to Play
Battle Team is a team shmup that requires three players, and every player is working together to get as high of a score as possible in just one minute. Each player can only move up, down, or fire their weapon. The first player uses the keys W, S, and D; the second player uses P, ; (semicolon), and ' (quote); the third player uses the Up Arrow, Down Arrow, and the Right Arrow. Each player is assigned a color, and every enemy that spawns is given a color too. The team score only increases when a player hits an enemy of the same color. When a player hits an enemy of the wrong color the enemy is killed, but the score doesn't increase. Instead the player gets an "error gem" added to their stash at the bottom of the screen. Whenever any single player has 5 "error gems", the magic is too strong to be contained in just one ship, and every single player randomly swaps ships with another player. Whenever any team member dies, the entire team has to reset to the begining with 0 score, but the timer doesn't reset, so don't die too close to the end!
### Process and Design Goals
In general, this is expanded on more in the [process](/process/) folder. My intent for the project overall was to create a cooperative multiplayer shmup, but I wanted to introduce a chaotic/challenging element to it that's not really expeced. For that chaotic element, I added the ship switching mechanic where the players will have a brief second of not knowing what they are controlling. I kind of relate this to when you put your hand down on the keyboard to play a normal game, but you miss WASD by a row, and the buttons you think you're pressing don't control what you'd expect them to. I had a hard time deciding *when* to switch the players around, as a fixed timer would be too predictable, but a random timer would be frustrating leaving even an experience player confused why the game had to act like that. But attaching the ship/player switching to the number of wrong enemies hit gave the game something that feels a little bit more justified, and can be controlled by the player, but is still something that will happen often enough to be a major part of the game. Iwanted my major themes of the game to be the teamplay and the slight chaos, and I hope that these mechanics were implemented well enough for those aspects to shine through.
