# Shmup Project Process Journal
Peter Rosenthal  
ATLS 4140
## First Design Iteration - 9 Oct 2019
[Play the first iteration here](https://cyuun.github.io/atlas-gamedev-shmup/midDev-webBuild/)  
I took this first iteration to class to get feedback on the core mechanincs of my game. At this point I had completed everything I needed to prove this game as a concept, like the three players, the ship switching mechanic, and the score increase as well. But it is not a full game at this point, still lacking things such as a way for the game to end. The feedback I got was mostly positive, and not very critical at all. One of my main concerns was the controlls, and fitting 3 people onto one keyboard. But nobody ever complained about the controlls, so I'm assuming they're at least okay. People suggested that with the lack of movement in the x-direction, the ships farther away became harder to hit, so to fix that in the final version, the projectile speed will be increased. And people also want some sort of way to distinguish the projectiles based on who fired them. And that was about the extent of the feedback that I got.
## Shmup Idea Refinement - 17 Sept 2019
When I was initially brainstorming ideas for my shmup, I always liked the ideas that involved multiple players the best. But I was worried about multiplayer being out of the scope of what I could do. But then I decided that if I limitted the controls, I could easily fit multiple players onto a single keyboard and a single screen, which would be much more reasonable to program. I intend my shmup to fit into the classic space shmup genre and theme of games, and not deviate too far from something you'd find in a late 70s early 80s arcade. In my multiplayer shmup, all players (3 or 4) will be on the same screen, scrolling horizontally with terrain in the style of Williams Electronic's 1981 shmup Defender. But the players will be locked to the left screen and can only move up and down. Each player will be given a color of their ship, and the enemies that appear will be in those 3 (or 4) colors. Players can only shoot enemies of their same color, and shooting the wrong color could even potentially punish the players. All of the players are working together on one single scoreline, but every random number of enemies the players are given a quick time warning and then they "switch ships" to a random other players ship. The players don't just change color, they swap locations too, and there is chaos for a couple of seconds while the players have to figure out which ship they jumped into. This is where team communication in real life would be helpful, and hopefully an indicator of good gameplay would be loud gameplay from the team. Because everybody is working on the same game score, players will eventually learn how to help the other players out before and after switching, so that everybody can play the game better.
## Initial Shmup Ideation - 11 Sept 2019
When we were thinking of different ways to vary what a shmup was in class, the multiplayer ideas really stuck out to me, and my favorite ideas all involve multiple players, which could possibly be too complicated for this project.
* Multiplayer with separate screens and the players have to randomly swap screens.
* Multiplayer with only a single screen, but players can only shoot enemies of their same "class".
* Multiplayer where one person is a strategist and controls all of the enemies.

My single player ideas are more simple to implement maybe, but they don't stand out as much to me.
* Singleplayer where your ship or gun or whatever changes every certain or random # of kills.
* Singleplayer where the enemies don't get harder, but instead the player gets less and less powerful as the game goes on.
